README.md, before:

This repository contains useful shell scripts to make interacting with LDAP/AD more pleasant.

The shell scripts provide easy access to the most common types of information that we've needed on users/groups at the DKFZ.
They are made available here in the spirit of making every admin's life easier.

# Examples

## Basic LDAP info on a ...
### .. user
```
# ./ldap CN=johndoe
cn: johndoe
displayName: Doe, John
dn: CN=johndoe,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
mail: j.doe@example.com
memberOf: CN=Powerusers               OU=Department      full DN: CN=Powerusers,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=SomeProject              OU=Department      full DN: CN=SomeProject,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=TTP_project              OU=Department      full DN: CN=TTP_project,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=SCP_project              OU=Department      full DN: CN=SCP_project,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
...
memberOf: CN=storage-access           OU=Department      full DN: CN=storage-access,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=UserWithParking          OU=Company         full DN: CN=UserWithParking,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ufn: johndoe, Department, Unit, Company, ad.example.com
```
### .. group
```
# ./ldap cn=SOME-GROUP
cn: SOME-GROUP
description: AD and NIS Group to control access to controlled data for SOME-PROJECT
dn: CN=SOME-GROUP,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=ADMIN-GROUP              OU=Department      full DN: CN=ADMIN-GROUP,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=janedoe                  OU=DefenseWeekly   full DN: CN=janedoe,OU=DefenseWeekly,OU=DefenseUnit,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=broadwell                OU=GeorgiaState    full DN: CN=broadwell,OU=GeorgiaState,OU=Literature,OU=EduUnit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
....
member: CN=aladin                   OU=Lamp            full DN: CN=aladin,OU=lamp,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ufn: SOME-GROUP, Department, Unit, Company, ad.example.com

```


## compare members between two groups
```
# ./groupdiff groupA groupB
groupA         groupB
=============  =============
---            troyhunt
aladin         aladin
samspade       samspade
---            pnorton
---            mcaffeej
```

## compare _multiple_ groups
```
# group-matrix group1 group2 ...
USERS     group1  group2  group3
troyhunt  Y
samspade  Y       Y       Y
pnorton   Y
mcaffeek  Y       Y
gatesb    Y
```

## _recursively_ find ALL groups of a user ##
This finds all groups of a user, including those that they are only indirectly a member of.
```
# ./groupsof <username>
# ./groupsof johndoe
 CN=Team                     OU=Department      dn: CN=Team,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX FileZilla         OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX FileZilla,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX putty             OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX putty,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX WinSCP3           OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX WinSCP3,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Terminal Server Users    OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=Terminal Server Users,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX Browser           OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX Browser,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=WLAN                     OU=RADIUS          dn: CN=WLAN,OU=RADIUS,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=UserWithParking          OU=Company         dn: CN=UserWithParking,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Team-Data                OU=Department      dn: CN=Team-Data,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
... <MANY groups omitted>
 CN=Team-Data-SecretProject  OU=Department      dn: CN=Team-Data-SecretProject,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Team-viztools            OU=Team            dn: CN=Team-viztools,OU=Team,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
```

Commit message:

mention config file in README

README.md, after:

This repository contains useful shell scripts to make interacting with LDAP/AD more pleasant.

The shell scripts provide easy access to the most common types of information that we've needed on users/groups at the DKFZ.
They are made available here in the spirit of making every admin's life easier.

# Configuration

The scripts load their LDAP configuration from a separate config file: `ldap-summary.conf`, located in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` (by default: `$HOME/.config/`).
An example config file is provided as `ldap-summary.conf.template`, which contains dummy values for all required settings.

# Examples

## Basic LDAP info on a ...
### .. user
```
# ./ldap CN=johndoe
cn: johndoe
displayName: Doe, John
dn: CN=johndoe,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
mail: j.doe@example.com
memberOf: CN=Powerusers               OU=Department      full DN: CN=Powerusers,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=SomeProject              OU=Department      full DN: CN=SomeProject,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=TTP_project              OU=Department      full DN: CN=TTP_project,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=SCP_project              OU=Department      full DN: CN=SCP_project,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
...
memberOf: CN=storage-access           OU=Department      full DN: CN=storage-access,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
memberOf: CN=UserWithParking          OU=Company         full DN: CN=UserWithParking,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ufn: johndoe, Department, Unit, Company, ad.example.com
```
### .. group
```
# ./ldap cn=SOME-GROUP
cn: SOME-GROUP
description: AD and NIS Group to control access to controlled data for SOME-PROJECT
dn: CN=SOME-GROUP,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=ADMIN-GROUP              OU=Department      full DN: CN=ADMIN-GROUP,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=janedoe                  OU=DefenseWeekly   full DN: CN=janedoe,OU=DefenseWeekly,OU=DefenseUnit,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
member: CN=broadwell                OU=GeorgiaState    full DN: CN=broadwell,OU=GeorgiaState,OU=Literature,OU=EduUnit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
....
member: CN=aladin                   OU=Lamp            full DN: CN=aladin,OU=lamp,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
ufn: SOME-GROUP, Department, Unit, Company, ad.example.com

```


## compare members between two groups
```
# ./groupdiff groupA groupB
groupA         groupB
=============  =============
---            troyhunt
aladin         aladin
samspade       samspade
---            pnorton
---            mcaffeej
```

## compare _multiple_ groups
```
# group-matrix group1 group2 ...
USERS     group1  group2  group3
troyhunt  Y
samspade  Y       Y       Y
pnorton   Y
mcaffeek  Y       Y
gatesb    Y
```

## _recursively_ find ALL groups of a user ##
This finds all groups of a user, including those that they are only indirectly a member of.
```
# ./groupsof <username>
# ./groupsof johndoe
 CN=Team                     OU=Department      dn: CN=Team,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX FileZilla         OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX FileZilla,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX putty             OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX putty,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX WinSCP3           OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX WinSCP3,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Terminal Server Users    OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=Terminal Server Users,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=CITRIX Browser           OU=Citrix Server   dn: CN=CITRIX Browser,OU=Citrix Server,OU=Terminal Server,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=WLAN                     OU=RADIUS          dn: CN=WLAN,OU=RADIUS,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=UserWithParking          OU=Company         dn: CN=UserWithParking,OU=Company,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Team-Data                OU=Department      dn: CN=Team-Data,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
... <MANY groups omitted>
 CN=Team-Data-SecretProject  OU=Department      dn: CN=Team-Data-SecretProject,OU=Department,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
 CN=Team-viztools            OU=Team            dn: CN=Team-viztools,OU=Team,OU=Unit,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com
```
